---
# Please do not edit this file directly; it is auto generated.
# Instead, please edit 09-introduction_to_asco_blight_dispersal_study.md in _episodes_rmd/
title: "Introduction to 'The role of conidia in the dispersal of Ascochyta rabiei'"
teaching: 10
exercises: 10
questions:
objectives:
- " Understand how the study was set up"
- "Understand the study's objectives"
keypoints:
source: Rmd
---



## Modelling _Ascochyta rabiei_ Condial Dispersal in Australian Field Conditions

We will be using data and materials from a pre-print that is available from bioRxiv (Khaliq et al. 2020a).
The paper has been submitted to the European Journal of Plant Pathology and is currently in-review.
However, materials are available for us to freely use as examples in fitting generalised additive models to data.

## Abstract

> _Ascochyta rabiei_ asexual spores (conidia) were assumed to spread over short distances (~10 m) in combination of rain and strong wind. We investigated the potential distance of conidial spread in three rainfall and three sprinkler irrigation events. Chickpea trap plants were distributed at the distances of 0, 10, 25, 50 and 75 m from infested chickpea plots before scheduled irrigation and forecast rainfall events. Trap plants were transferred to a controlled temperature room (20 °C) for 48 h (100% humidity) after being exposed in the field for 2–6 days for rainfall events, and for one day for irrigation events. After 48 h incubation period, trap plants were transferred to a glasshouse (20 °C) to allow lesion development. Lesions on all plant parts were counted after two weeks, which gave an estimate of the number of conidia released and the distance travelled. Trap plants at all distances were infected in all sprinkler irrigation and rainfall events. The highest number of lesions on trap plants were recorded closest to the infested plots – the numbers decreased as the distance from the infested plots increased. There was a positive relationship between the amount of rainfall and the number of lesions recorded on trap plants. A generalised additive model was developed that efficiently described spatial patterns of conidial spread. With further development, the model can be used to predict the spread of _A. rabiei_. This is the first systematic study to show that conidia distribute _A. rabiei_ over longer distances than previously reported.

## Data

We will be using data available from Zenodo that was used to write this paper (Khaliq et al. 2020b) under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license.

## Research Compendium Materials

We will be using materials from the [research compendium](https://adamhsparks.github.io/ChickpeaAscoDispersal/index.html) (Khaliq et al. 2020c) that was constructed to provide supporting materials to the paper submitted to the European Journal of Plant Pathology (in review).

The research compendium provides a full pipeline for analysis and modelling to determine the spread of _Ascochyta rabiei_ conidia in Australian paddocks as RMarkdown files, which have been modified for use in this workshop.

## References

Ihsanul Khaliq, Joshua Fanning, Paul Melloy, Jean Galloway, Kevin Moore, Daniel Burrell, & Adam H. Sparks. (2020a), The role of conidia in the dispersal of _Ascochyta rabiei_. 
bioRxiv 2020.05.12.091827; doi: [10.1101/2020.05.12.091827](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.05.12.091827).

Ihsanul Khaliq, Joshua Fanning, Paul Melloy, Jean Galloway, Kevin Moore, Daniel Burrell, & Adam H. Sparks. (2020b), 'Raw data for "The role of conidia in the dispersal of Ascochyta rabiei"', Zenodo, Grains Research and Development Corporation (GRDC), Australia, provided financial assistance in this work through the project USQ-1903-003RTX. Agriculture Victoria and GRDC provided financial assistance in this work through their co- investment project DAV00150, and DJP1097-001RTX.

Ihsanul Khaliq, Joshua Fanning, Paul Melloy, Jean Galloway, Kevin Moore, Daniel Burrell, & Adam H. Sparks. (2020)c, Raw data for "The role of conidia in the dispersal of *Ascochyta rabiei*" (Version 1.0) [Data set]. Zenodo. doi: [10.5281/zenodo.3842293](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3842293).

> ## Challenge 1
>
> Install the packages that we will need to use for this portion of the workshop.
> They include: tidyverse, ggplot2, lubridate, skimr, here, viridis, broom and
> mgcViz
>
> > ## Solution to Challenge 1
> >
> >~~~
> >install.packages(c(
> >  "tidyverse",
> >  "ggplot2",
> >  "lubridate",
> >  "skimr",
> >  "here",
> >  "viridis",
> >  "broom",
> >  "mgcViz"
> >))
> >~~~
> >{: .language-r}
> >
> >
> >
> >~~~
> >Installing packages into '/Users/adamsparks/.R/library'
> >(as 'lib' is unspecified)
> >~~~
> >{: .output}
> >
> >
> >
> >~~~
> >
> >The downloaded binary packages are in
> >	/var/folders/yv/4xy6zs3x5qsgj96389nkjvtw0000gn/T//RtmppJljn3/downloaded_packages
> >~~~
> >{: .output}
> {: .solution}
{: .challenge}
